### Different kinds of risks
- **Residual risk**:  
  (residual risk) = (inherent risk) x (control risk)  
  Residual risk is the risk that remains after the implementation of mitigating security controls.
- **Inherent risk**:  
  Risks before considering controls. Risks that are inherent in the nature of the business and economy.
- **Control risk**:
  The likelihood of a vulnerability wont be caught even if all possible safety measures (controls) would be applied.
- **Detection risk**:  
  Detection risks are the risks that an auditor will not be able to find during audit.  
  Detection risk includes two types of risks. Sampling risk, Non-sampling risk.
  + Sampling risk: When an auditor falsely accepts or erroneously rejects an audit sample.
  + Non-sampling risk: When an auditor fails to detect a condition because of non applying the appropriate procedure or using procedures inconsistent with the audit objectives (detection faults).
- **Secondary risk**:  
  The secondary risk is an outcome of dealing with the original risk.

*Higher inherent risk doesn't mean that there will be vulnerabilities. Because there might be controls in place already against them.*

*Auditor has no control over Inherent risk or Control risk, only client has control over them*
*Auditor only has control over detection risk*

### Roles & Responsibilities
- **Data owner**: is usually a member of management, in charge of a specific business unit, and is ultimately responsible for the protection and use of a specific subset of information. Data owner determines the sensitivity or classification levels of data.

- **Chief Risk Officer (CRO)**:  CRO's are accountable for enabling the business to balance risk and reward (opportunities). 

- **Chief Information Officer**:  CIO's are responsible for the information technology and computer systems that support enterprise goals. The CIO reports to the chief executive officer (CEO), chief operations officer (COO), or chief financial officer (CFO).

- **Designated Approving Authority**:  also known as the accreditor (স্বীকৃতি দানকারী).
	- Responsible for rejecting or accepting the residual risk for a system

- **Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)**:
	- ISSO plays the role of a supporter.
	- Manages the security of the system that is slated for C&A.
	- Takes part in the formal configuration management process. 
	- Prepares Certification & Accreditation (C&A) packages.

- **CISO**
	- Manages the information security program functions.

- **System Owner**:
	- Informs the key officials about the requirements for a security C&A. 
	- Makes the resources available, and provides the relevant documents to support the process.
- **Information system auditor**: Information system auditor inspects whether the security policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures are efficiently performed in accordance with the company's stated security objectives. He is responsible for reporting the senior management about the value of security controls by performing regular and independent audits.

- **Information system security professional**: An informational systems security professional designs, implements, manages, and reviews the security policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures of the organization. He is responsible to implement and maintain security by the senior-level management.

- **Senior management**: A senior management assigns overall responsibilities to other individuals.

### NIACAP
Four minimum participants (roles) are required to perform a NIACAP security assessment.
- IS program manager
- Designated Approving Authority (DAA)
- Certification agent (certifier)
- User representative

-- **IS program manager**: is the primary authorization advocate, who is responsible for the Information Systems (IS) throughout the life cycle of the system development.  
-- **Designated Approving Authority (DAA)**: is the official with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating a system at an acceptable level of risk.  
-- **Certification agent (certifier)**: provides the technical expertise to conduct the certification throughout the system life cycle.  
-- **User representative**: focuses on system availability, access, integrity, functionality, performance, and confidentiality in a Certification and Accreditation (C&A) process.

### NIACAP
NIACAP is a process, which provides a standard set of activities, general tasks, and a management structure to certify and accredit systems that maintain the information assurance and the security posture of a system or site.

### DITSCAP
DITSCAP is a process, which establishes a standard process, a set of activities, general task descriptions, and a management structure to certify and accredit the IT systems that will maintain the required security posture.

### DIACAP (Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process)
> (DIACAP replaced the former process, known as DITSCAP)

Key participants:  
- Information Assurance Manager (IAM)

Phases (CHECK & VERIFY AGAIN):  
- Phase I: Initiate and Plan IA C&A.
- Phase II: Implement and validate assigned IA controls.
- Phase III: Analyze residual risk. Issue certification determination. Make accreditation decision.
- Phase IV: Make certification determination and accreditation decisions.
- Phase V: Decommission system

### Risk calculation
- **Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)**  
SLE = Asset value * Exposure Factor
- **Annual Rate of Occurrence (ARO)**:  
ARO is an expression of the number of incidents from a particular threat that can be expected in a year. Looking at historical incident data within your industry is a good start for determining what the ARO should be.
- **Annual Loss Expectancy (ALE)**  
ALE = SLE * ARO

The identification and reduction of the Total Risk using controls so that the Residual Risk is within the acceptable range or threshold, wherein business operations are not disrupted, is the primary goal of risk management.

### Penetration techniques
- **Demon dialing**: automatically tests every phone line in an exchange and tries to locate modems that are attached to the network.
- **Sniffing**: a protocol analyzer is used to capture data packets that are later decoded to collect information such as passwords or infrastructure configurations.
- **Dumpster diving**:

### MAC levels
Mission Assurance Categories (MAC) and confidentiality levels prescribed by DoD 8500.2
- **MAC I**: It states that the systems have high integrity and high availability.
- **MAC II**: It states that the systems have high integrity and medium availability.
- **MAC III**: It states that the systems have basic integrity and availability.

### Software Assurance Acquisition process
Activities performed in the planning phase of the software assurance acquisition process:  
- Determine software product or service requirements. 
- Identify associated risks. 
- Develop software requirements. 
- Create acquisition strategy. 
- Develop evaluation criteria and evaluation plan. 
- Define development and use of SwA due diligence questionnaires.

### Qualitative risk analysis
- A fast and low-cost approach to  analyze the risk impact and its effect
- Uses the likelihood and impact of the identified risks
- Establishes a basis for a focused quantitative analysis
- Conducted at  any point in a project life cycle
- The goal is to determine  proportion of effect and theoretical response.

Inputs to Qualitative risk analysis:
- Organizational process assets 
- Project Scope Statement 
- Risk Management Plan 
- Risk Register

### Quantitative risk analysis
Quantitative risk analysis is in-depth and often requires a schedule and budget for the analysis.
- Objectively determines the impact
- Involves matrices and models to determine impact
- Historical loss data is used to determine impact

### Models
- **Take-Grant Protection Model**:  
  Uses a directed graph to specify the rights
- **Biba Integrity Model**:  
- **Bell-LaPadula Model**:  
  Deals only with the confidentiality of classified material. It does not address integrity or availability.
- **Clark-Wilson model**

### Something like model
- **SSE-CMM - **Systems Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model****:  
  + Provide Ongoing Skills and Knowledge
  + Manage Project Risk
  + Improve Organization's System Engineering Process

### Process of removing sensitive information
- **Anonymization** is the process of removing private information from the data. Anonymization techniques such as replacement, suppression, generalization and pertubation are useful to assure data privacy. 
- **Sanitization** has to do with inputs and outputs as a defensive control and includes techniques such as escaping and encoding. 
- **Degaussing and Formatting** are information and media sanitization techniques and they are not selective of what they remove/dispose. Process of removing magnetism from TV.

### U.S. Department of Defense information security 8 standards:
- DC Security Design & Configuration 
- IA Identification and Authentication 
- EC Enclave and Computing Environment 
- EB Enclave Boundary Defense 
- PE Physical and Environmental 
- PR Personnel 
- CO Continuity 
- VI Vulnerability and Incident Management 

Information System Security Officer (ISSO):  
- An ISSO manages the security of the information system that is slated for Certification & Accreditation (C&A).  

Information System Security Engineer (ISSE):  
- An ISSE provides advice on the continuous monitoring of the information system.
- Takes part in the configuration management process.

### Steps of the pre-attack phase of white hacker
- Information gathering 
- Determination of network range 
- Identification of active systems 
- Location of open ports and applications 
- OS fingerprinting on the network
- Networking mapping

### FITSAF (Federal Information Technology Security Assessment Framework) levels:
- Level 1: The first level reflects that an asset has documented a security policy. 
- Level 2: The second level shows that the asset has documented procedures and controls to implement the policy. 
- Level 3: The third level indicates that these procedures and controls have been implemented. 
- Level 4: The fourth level shows that the procedures and controls are tested and reviewed. 
- Level 5: The fifth level is the final level and shows that the asset has procedures and controls fully integrated into a comprehensive program.

### Information Assurance Framework, are as follows: 
- **Local Computing Environments**: This area includes servers, client workstations, operating system, and applications. 
- **Enclave Boundaries**: This area consists of collection of local computing devices, regardless of physical location, that are interconnected via local area networks (LANs) and governed by a single security policy. 
- **Networks and Infrastructures**: This area provides the network connectivity between enclaves. It includes operational area networks (OANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), and campus area networks (CANs). 
- **Supporting Infrastructures**: This area provides security services for networks, client workstations, Web servers, operating systems, applications, files, and single-use infrastructure machines

### IDS
- **Snort** is a signature-based intrusion detection system.
- **StealthWatch** is a behavior-based intrusion detection system.
- **RealSecure** is a network-based IDS that monitors TCP, UDP and ICMP traffic and is configured to look for attack patterns.
- **Tripwire** is a file integrity checker for UNIX/Linux that can be used for host-based intrusion detection.


### Unknown Topic 
- DIACAP (The Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process)
- DITSCAP
- FITSAF: Federal Information Technology Security Assessment Framework
- 44, 47, 48
- 52, 53, 54, **55**, 56, 58
- 60, 64 - 67
- 71 - 75, **73**, 79
- 84, 85, 87
- 90, 91, 95, 96, 97, 98
- 102, **106**
- ***115***, 118
- 122, **123**, 124, 125, 127, 128
- 130, 133, 135, **137**
- 145, 149
- 

### Study more
- 76, 77
- 81, 82, 83, 86, 88, 89
- 92, 99
- 104, 105, 107, 108, 109
- 111, 112, 119
- 120, 126
- 131, 138, 139
- 140, 141, 143, 144, 146, 147, 148

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTcxNDI4OTgyOSwxNTU4OTM1MDYzLDYxOD
kyMTQ1LDQ0MzEyMjIyMiwtMTk2Mzk3OTI3NiwtMTgxMDI0ODI0
MiwxMTA4NzIzMDAsODQ5MzgzNzE5LC04Nzk1NDIzODQsLTExNT
A0MTA5MzAsMTc4Mjk1Mzg2NiwxNTY3MDM0NDQ3LC0xMzg4MDE5
Mjk2LC0xMzY4MDE3NDcsNjczNDM5MjYsLTE5Njg1ODkyMTIsMz
Q4NzMxMTIzLDE4NTI1Nzk1MDksLTQ1Mzg0NjI4MywxNjg1MTE1
OTI3XX0=
-->