## Software Assurance Methodoloties

### Socratic Methodology
The way it works is that the one with the opposing viewpoint is questioned on their rationale for their position, often with a negative form of their question itself (“Questioning the Questioner”).
If someone was to challenge the need for encryption as a disclosure protection mechanism and asks you, “Why is it that I must ensure that data is protected against disclosure threats?”. Instead of giving him answer, question him in return “Why is it that you must NOT ensure that data is protected against disclosure threats?”.

### Six Sigma (6 σ)
Six Sigma seeks to improve the quality of process outputs by identifying and removing the causes of defects and variability in manufacturing and business processes.
Six Sigma is a business management strategy for quality it can be closely related to security because it is used for process improvement by measuring if a product (software) or service is near perfect in quality by eliminating defects.

The key sub-methodologies by which Six Sigma quality can be achieved:
- **DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control)**:  
  For incremental improvement of existing processes.
- **DMADV (Define, Measure, Analyze, Design and Verify):**  
  To develop new processes for Six Sigma products and services.

### Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
CMMI level is used to rate the maturity of the software development processes of an organization.

Three areas in which CMMI can be used are:
- development (products)
- delivery (services)
- acquisition (products and services)

The five CMMI maturity levels are:  
- **(Level 1) Initial**: Processes are ad hoc, poorly controlled, reactive and highly unpredictable.
- **(Level 2) Repeatable**: Also reactive in nature, the processes are grouped at the project level and are characterized as being repeatable and managed by basic project management tracking of cost and schedule.
- **(Level 3) Defined**: Level 2 maturity level deals with processes at the project level, but in this level, the maturity of the organizational processes is established and improved continuously. Processes are characterized, well understood and proactive in nature.
- **(Level 4) Managed Quantitatively**: In this level, the premise for maturity is that what cannot be measured cannot be managed and so the processes are measured against appropriate metrics and controlled.
- **(Level 5) Optimizing**: In this level, the focus is on continuous process improvements through innovative technologies and incremental improvements. Organizations with this level of software development process maturity have the ability to quickly and effectively adapt to changing business objectives, thereby allowing the organization to scale.

### Operationally Critical Threat, Asset and Vulnerability Evaluation (OCTAVE)
OCTAVE provides insight into the organizational risk, and the state of security and resiliency within the organization. 

OCTAVE is performed in three phases:  
- Phase 1: Build asset-based threat profiles
- Phase 2: Identify infrastructure vulnerabilities
- Phase 3: Develop security strategy and plans

### STRIDE
STRIDE is a threat modeling methodology that is performed in the design phase.
- **Spoofing** – Impersonating another user or process  
- **Tampering** – Unauthorized alterations
- **Repudiation** – Cannot prove the action; deniability of claim
- **Information Disclosure** – Exposure of information to unauthorized user or process
- **Denial of Service** – Service interruption that impacts availability
- **Elevation of privilege** – Unauthorized increase of user or process rights

### DREAD
DREAD is a risk calculation methodology.
- **Damage potential**
- **Reproducibility**
- **Exploitability**
- **Affected users**
- **Discoverability**

### Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSSTMM)
OSSTMM is a peer-reviewed testing methodology. The output from a OSSTMM security audit is a report known as the Security Test Audit Report (STAR)

### Flaw Hypothesis Method (FHM)
FHM is a vulnerability prediction and analysis method, that uses comprehensive penetration testing to test the strength of the security of the software.  
It can uncover weaknesses in design (flaws) and coding (bugs) in the current version of the software by simulating attacks (penetration testing). The same approach can be used to determine security requirements for future versions of the software as well.  
One of the major drawbacks of the FHM is that it can help identify only known threats.


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTIwNTM5MzQwNjAsLTE5NDIxODQwMjIsOT
czODQxNTE5LDIwMzAyODA1NjAsLTE4ODg1MDQzNjQsNjc1MzE0
NDg1LC0yMTM3NzQzODE3LC0xNjgwNjA2MzYwLDYzMDcyNjM4NC
w4NTQ0ODU0MTYsMTY3MzY1NDgyNywtNjk4NTY2MDI5XX0=
-->